---
title: "Requirements"
date: 2025-02-13
navigation: true
---

::heading
Installation
::
The following guide describes how to download the TeaLinuxOS.iso image, write it to a flash drive, and install it on the hardware of your choice.

## System Specifications

::table{ :headers='["Component", "Requirement", "Recommended"]' :rows='[ ["CPU", "64-bit x86", ""],["RAM", "4 GB", "8 GB"],["Drive Storage", "20 GB", ""]]'}
::

From [TealinuxOS](https://doscom.org)., choose DOWNLOAD. The download dialog includes the current Requirements, and download Filesize, as well as the image checksums used to verify the file once downloaded.

## Installation Media

The TeaLinuxOS.iso can be easily flashed to a USB drive. See our Live Disk Creation article for instructions to create a bootable USB drive in Windows, macOS, and Linux.

## Secure Boot

Secure boot must be disabled before installing TeaLinuxOS. Secure boot can be disabled in the BIOS of most computers; however, the process to disable secure boot will vary by laptop and motherboard model.

## Selecting Your Bootable

Power off the target computer and insert the bootable USB. Power on the computer and enter the boot device menu selection for your BIOS or UEFI system. The table below lists lists several common methods for System76 laptops and desktops. Consult your computer manufacturer's documentation to access this menu on third-party computers.
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

<NavLink
      prev-title="What's New"
      prev-description="What's new in TeaLinuxOS"
      prev-href="/documentation/welcome-to-tealinuxos/what's-new"
      next-title="Which edition to choose"
      next-description=""
      next-href="/documentation/installation/which-edition-to-choose"
    />
